you're up to your neck in cold water
there's ice all around you you've got to
get out
when you're swimming in freezing cold
water your body can get a bit of a shock
your reflexes might make you want to
gasp but don't
just do your best to keep your head
above water throw off any heavy objects
like boots
jackets or backpacks when you reach some
ice
don't just try and jump out it's not
exactly a swimming pool
try to get into a horizontal position
and use your strong legs to swim onto
the ice use your hands to pull you out
once you're on the surface
roll away from the edge then crawl then
walk
[Music]
if you're venturing into the wild you
may want to get some stuff ready
beforehand
make your own fire starter at home heat
up some water in a pan
put a pyrex container in there and melt
some paraffin wax inside it
then take an egg carton and put some
dryer lint in each section
fill them with paraffin wait till it's
all solid
and cut out each little section just one
of these little guys will make starting
a fire
way easier dental floss can be super
handy for surviving in the wild
you can use it as fishing line with a
can tab as a hook
or you can use it as a clothesline just
stretch it between two trees
it looks kind of flimsy but a single
strand can hold up to five pounds
it's also quite flammable so if you're
having trouble starting a fire
you can use a few feet of floss to start
it up
you can make a seriously strong rope
using a simple plastic bottle
if you have a good pair of scissors cut
off the neck of the bottle
so it looks like a tall and narrow cup
then start cutting it like some people
peel an orange
round and round in a spiral try to keep
it the same thickness the whole time
it'll be a lot longer and stronger than
you're expecting
you can use it to tie sticks together to
make a hut
or you can wrap it around your backpack
in case it rips or something
sugar might be damaging for your teeth
but it's got a pretty sweet super
power just pour some on a piece of cloth
and use it like a band-aid oh delicious
mosquitoes can be a real pain and there
are loads of them around
you can make your own diy repellent to
keep those little guys away
all you need is an orange a lemon or any
other citrus fruit
they're full of essential oils that
mosquitoes can't stand
peel an orange and rub the peel directly
on your skin just make sure to crumple
it a bit beforehand
to help those precious essential oils
come out
another good way to keep the mosquitoes
at bay is to add a bit of orange peel to
your campfire
that releases the essential oils into
the air
you're getting hungry but you don't have
anything to start a fire with
empty your pockets there might be
something in there that you can use as a
makeshift fire starter
if you have a battery and a metal
chewing gum wrapper you're in business
cut a thin strip of the wrapper long
enough to connect the two sides of the
battery
the middle of the strip should be
thinner than the ends grab some dry
grass twigs or even some paper
whatever you're going to use to start
your fire the foil strip should ignite
right away so make sure you're ready
a human can go surprisingly long without
food but
not water depends where you are but a
lot of the time
it might not be safe to drink
you can make a diy water filter start
with a fire
boiling the water may not be enough so
as soon as those ashes are cool
grind them into a powder don't just use
any ash you randomly found in the forest
it might have some melted plastic on it
or something
then you need a plastic bottle cut off
the bottom
and poke a small hole in the cap turn it
upside down
put about three inches of charcoal in
and pour the boiled water in
nice and slowly the drips are ready to
drink
if you're getting bits of ash in the
water wrap a piece of clean cloth around
the cap
for some extra filtration a char cloth
can come in handy if you're lost in the
wild
to make it you're going to need a metal
container with a cover
put a piece of cloth inside it and put
the container into a fire for a few
minutes
the cloth should end up getting a bit
black around the edges
but still be intact a char cloth catches
fire super fast
even with an old school flint
if you're ever hiking in an anaconda's
backyard listen up
stay away from shallow rivers because
these giant snakes love to hang out
there
if an anaconda decides to give you a
little squeeze don't exhale
every time you do the snakes gonna
squeeze you a little bit tighter
anacondas do have a weak spot though
they don't like their tail to be bitten
it's not exactly delicious but it'll get
the job done
avalanches are pretty powerful so
remember these tips next time you're out
on the slopes
if things get a bit hairy first off
cover your mouth
use a scar for some other piece of cloth
and don't let the snow
in keep one arm straight above your head
and don't forget to dig
out a little pocket in front of your
face that'll let you breathe for about a
half hour
get rid of anything heavy you're
carrying even if it's expensive
but make sure you hold on to your
backpack it's an extra layer of
protection
and grab onto a tree if you see any to
get back to the surface
move like you're swimming straight up
snow is just water anyway
if you ever somehow get trapped in a
sinking car
don't panic and don't try to open the
door the water pressure from the outside
will be too strong
you'll just waste valuable energy and
that door just won't open
the best way to escape is through the
windows roll them down
and swim away if you're not a great
swimmer
you can try to create your own makeshift
floatation device like a plastic bag
with air trapped inside
tie a knot in it and make sure it's
tight a plastic bottle would work great
but one probably won't be enough you can
also use a raincoat
or a pair of those waterproof pants you
can even use an upside down trash can
if you have some car trouble at night
out in the woods for example
you need light to see what you're doing
all you need is a bottle of water or a
jug
or even a pickle jar filled with water
just strap it on a headlight
and voila the water will spread the
light so you can see better
perfect for setting up an emergency tent
or finding wood for a fire
mason jars those pickle ones are really
handy when it comes to storing matches
if you're camping in a forest it's
really important to hide those matches
away
somewhere dry and safe to make it even
more convenient
make a strikable lid cut off the strips
on the side of your matchboxes
and glue them to the lid of your mason
jar
before your next big outdoor adventure
make sure you're all stocked up on dark
chocolate
chocolate is probably the most delicious
survival food
but it's also one of the best it's
loaded with calories
and helps keep your mood up plus you
don't need a fork
plate or fire to prepare it last one for
today people
still having trouble lighting that fire
look no further than that bag of chips
you secretly hid from your fellow
campers
chips are everywhere these days and
apart from
tasting delicious and turning your
fingers a weird color they have
one more trick up their sleeve you can
use them to start a fire
these kind of chips are flammable so
make a little mound of chips
and keep that dry wood handy they'll
light in seconds